README.md, before:

# Introduction

This forjj plugin is dedicated to build and maintain a jenkins system.

It is based on `docker.hos.hpecorp.net/devops/jenkins-ci` inner source image.

It provides orchestration services for forjj:

- create: infrastructure initial code + README.md in the `infra` repository under `ci` directory.
- build/maintain: Code to build and maintain your CI infra structure as described in the `infra/ci`.

# How to create your jenkins CI infrastructure for your organization?

Using forjj, it is quite easy.

To create a new jenkins instance to your organization, you just need to add `--apps ci:jenkins` :

Ex:
```bash
$ forjj create <workspace> --apps ci:jenkins <jenkins_flags> ...
```

If you want to update an existing jenkins instance, you can use:

```bash
$ forjj update <workspace> --apps ci:jenkins <jenkins_flags> ...
```

If you have several jenkins instances, you can add it in the `--apps` flag:

Ex:
```bash
$ forjj ... --apps ci:jenkins:myinstance,ci:jenkins:anotherinstance <jenkins_flags> ...
```

Each instance requested will have his collection of jenkins flags prefixed by the instance name.

Ex:
```bash
$ forjj ... --apps ci:jenkins:myinstance,ci:jenkins:anotherinstance --myinstance-service-addr myinstance.com --anotherinstance-service-addr ...
```

In case of update, you probably need to follow the organization flow to approve your change and apply.

Depending on upstream flow choosed, forjj jenkins could generate more files to create jobs/pipelines (jobs-dsl)

## Jenkins source Templates

All jenkins source files are generated from a collection of source templates (jenkins source model).
Currently, those templates are located under templates directory.

TODO: We can imagine having several templates directory as well as a different source of templates (git, tar, others...) to change jenkins sources model, but this has not been currently developped.

Feel free to contribute to add this feature!

The `templates/templates.yaml` defines how to generate the source model from a deploy perspective.

The template mechanisms implemented is based on [golang template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
The template data is given by the forjj-jenkins.yaml source file. The data structure is defined in [this go source file](jenkins_plugin.go#34)

You can update this file manually and ask forjj to update source files.

TODO: forjj-jenkins is a go binary exposing his service to forjj through a REST API. But we can image that this binary become available to simply regenerate source file from `forjj-jenkins.yaml`.
Today you must use forjj update --apps ci:jenkins to call the plugin and regenerate source files from `forjj-jenkins.yaml`.

Feel free to contribute to add this feature!

### forjj Jenkins source model

Currently, the embedded source model implements globally the following:

- A docker image built from `hub.docker.io/devops/jenkins-ci` [source](https://github.com/forj-oss/jenkins-ci) See [Docker Trusted Registry (DTR) for versions](https://hub.docker.hpecorp.net/repositories/devops/jenkins-dood/tags)
- A collection of default features ([source](https://github.com/forj-oss/jenkins-install-inits))
  - Basic authentication (admin user with default password & anonymous has read access)
  - proxy setting (Set proxy from http_proxy env setting, found from the container)
  - seed-job (One job generated to populate the other collection of jobs/pipelines)
  - jenkins slave fixed port
- A collection of additional features and templates to add for a dedicated deployment
- A list of predefined deployment. ie:
  - docker - To deploy to your local docker environment.
  - ucp - To deploy to a UCP system.
  - marathon - To deploy to dcos/mesos marathon.

This list of elements are not exhaustive and can be updated time to time. Please refer to the (templates.yaml)[templates/templates.yaml] for latest updates.

## github upstream with pull-request flow setting.
The github integration will update your `infra/ci/jenkins-ci` with the following code.

- ghprb feature
- 3 Jobs DSL for each project identified under `infra/jobs-dsl/<project>/`
  - `<project>_PR` : Pull request job
  - `<project>_MASTER` : Pull request merge job
  - `<project>_RELEASE` : Master branch tagging job and build code.

### Options

Currently there is no other options.

## Other SCM?

Currently this jenkins FORJJ plugin do not have any other upstream integration.
But this CI orchestrator has been designed to easily add a new one, like gitlab or other flows.
If you want to add you SCM/Jenkins integration, consider contribution to this repository.

For details on contribution, see CONTRIBUTION.md

Commit message:

implement jobdsl features through projects

README.md, after:

# Introduction

Jenkins FORJJ plugin generate runnable source code to create and maintain a simple jenkins system.

By default, the source code generated from templates implements **Jenkins 2.x** with **pipeline**, several **jenkins plugins**, **basic security rights** and a collection of scripts to enhance jenkins management from code perspective.

Mainly it offers:

- Add/Maintain new project repository to generate jobs
  (Jenkinsfile + JobsDSL).
- Add/Maintain Jenkins plugins/Jenkins features
- Deploy Jenkins (master) on Docker/Swarm/UCP/Mesos/DCOS and scale it.

# How to create your jenkins CI infrastructure for your organization?

Using forjj, it is quite easy.

To create a new jenkins instance to your organization, you just need to add `--apps ci:jenkins` :

Ex:
```bash
$ forjj create --apps ci:jenkins <jenkins_flags> ...
```

If you want to update an existing jenkins instance, you can use:

```bash
$ forjj update --apps ci:jenkins <jenkins_flags> ...
```

If you have several jenkins instances, you can add it in the `--apps` flag:

Ex:
```bash
$ forjj ... --apps ci:jenkins:myinstance,ci:jenkins:anotherinstance <jenkins_flags> ...
```

Each instance requested will have his collection of jenkins flags prefixed by the instance name.

Ex:
```bash
$ forjj ... --apps ci:jenkins:myinstance,ci:jenkins:anotherinstance --myinstance-service-addr myinstance.com --anotherinstance-service-addr ...
```

In case of update, you probably need to follow the organization flow to approve your change and apply.

## Jenkins source Templates

All jenkins source files are generated from a collection of source templates (jenkins source model).
Currently, those templates are located under templates directory in forjj-jenkins container.

TODO: We can imagine having several templates directory as well as a different source of templates (git, tar, others...) to change jenkins sources model, but this has not been currently developped.

Feel free to contribute to add this feature!

The `templates/templates.yaml` defines how to generate the source model from a deploy perspective.

The template mechanisms implemented is based on [golang template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
The template data is given by the forjj-jenkins.yaml source file. The data structure is defined in [this go source file](jenkins_plugin.go#34)

You can update this file manually and ask forjj to update source files.

TODO: forjj-jenkins is a go binary exposing his service to forjj through a REST API. But we can image that this binary become available to simply regenerate source file from `forjj-jenkins.yaml`.
Today you must use forjj update --apps ci:jenkins to call the plugin and regenerate source files from `forjj-jenkins.yaml`.

Feel free to contribute to add this feature!

### forjj Jenkins source model

Currently, the embedded source model implements globally the following:

- A docker image built from `hub.docker.io/forj/jenkins-ci` [source](https://github.com/forj-oss/jenkins-ci)
- A collection of default features ([source](https://github.com/forj-oss/jenkins-install-inits))
  - Basic authentication (admin user with default password & anonymous has read access)
  - proxy setting (Set proxy from http_proxy env setting, found from the container)
  - seed-job (One job generated to populate the other collection of jobs/pipelines)
  - jenkins slave fixed port
- A collection of additional features and templates to add for a dedicated deployment
- A list of predefined deployment. ie:
  - docker - To deploy to your local docker environment. (Default deployment)
  - ucp - To deploy to a UCP system.
  - marathon - To deploy to dcos/mesos marathon.

This list of elements are not exhaustive and can be updated time to time. Please refer to the (templates.yaml)[templates/templates.yaml] for latest updates.

## github upstream with pull-request flow setting.
The github integration will update your `infra/ci/jenkins-ci` with the following code.

- ghprb feature
- 3 Jobs DSL for each project identified under `infra/jobs-dsl/<project>/`
  - `<project>_PR` : Pull request job
  - `<project>_MASTER` : Pull request merge job
  - `<project>_RELEASE` : Master branch tagging job and build code.

### Options

Currently there is no other options.

## Other SCM?

Currently this jenkins FORJJ plugin do not have any other upstream integration.
But this CI orchestrator has been designed to easily add a new one, like gitlab or other flows.
If you want to add you SCM/Jenkins integration, consider contribution to this repository.

For details on contribution, see CONTRIBUTION.md
